GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE NOVEMBER 17 MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
AND THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS.
BUT OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL MEMBER DISH
HERE HOUSEWARE HARRISON HERE.
DR. WATSON HERE TO HERE
ELSEWHERE RIGHT HERE ELLSBURG
01 HERE, MURTALA HERE.
THAT'S WHERE IGHER HERE COMES
RIGHT HERE.
THAT'S WHERE BRICKS HERE FOR
CORN HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM IF A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN BRIGG
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA I'D
LIKE TO FOUR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO OBSERVE THAT ON THE
AGENDA YOU WILL NOTE THAT
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER FIVE AND
D1 AND D2 THAT IS TO SAY THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH WITH
RESPECT TO THE IRS PROJECT ALL
THESE ITEMS HAVE BEEN REMOVED
FROM OUR AGENDA AS FOLKS KNOW,
THIS IS A PARTICULARLY COMPLEX
ENDEAVOR WITH WITH LOTS
OF MOVING PARTS AND LOTS
OF CONSIDERATIONS AND ONE THAT
WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THE CITY
IS NOT GENERALLY ACCUSTOMED AS
A RESULT THERE IS SOME CONCERNS
HAVE BEEN EXPRESSED BY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND OTHERS AND THERE
ARE MODIFICATIONS TO THE
PROPOSAL BEING CONTEMPLATED
THAT IS THE REASON FOR ITS
REMOVAL FROM THE AGENDA FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA WELL
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IS APPROVED
.
>> DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR GNOMEO
?
>> WE HAVE AN UPDATE FROM THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
>> COME ON DOWN
.
YOU CAN USE THIS TO CLICK OK,
AND THEN WHEN YOU GET TO YOUR
LAST SLIDE YOU JUST SHUT DOWN
ITSELF.
PLEASE SIT DOWN AND SAID OK,
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
COME UP ON THE SCREEN
ALL RIGHT
GO OK.
THANK YOU.
SORRY ABOUT THAT SO TONIGHT I
WANTED TO USE MY TIME TO GIVE
YOU AN UPDATE ON OUR DOWNTOWN
ACTIVITY TRENDS.
THE LAST TIME I DID THIS WAS
MARCH OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
WITH TWENTY TWENTY THREE DATA
SO TONIGHT I'LL BE SHARING
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR DATA SO THE
DATA I'M SHARING IS FROM PLACER
I PLACER USES CELL PHONE DATA
AND A PROPRIETARY ALGORITHM TO
ESTIMATE FOOT TRAFFIC IN OUR
DOWNTOWN WITHIN OUR DISTRICT.
THEY THEN CATEGORIZE THAT FOOT
TRAFFIC INTO THREE TYPES
OF VISITS.
SO THERE ARE VISITOR VISITS,
RESIDENT VISITS AND EMPLOYEE
VISITS RECENTLY PLACER HAS DONE
AN UPDATE TO THEIR ALGORITHM
AND WE ARE STILL WORKING WITH
THEM TO UNDERSTAND RESIDENT
VISITS.
SO TONIGHT I'M ONLY SHARING
VISITOR VISITS AND EMPLOYEE
VISITS BECAUSE WE WANT TO HAVE
A REALLY GOOD HANDLE IN
UNDERSTANDING THOSE RESIDENT
VISITS BEFORE WE SHARE THEM.
SO WE'LL START WITH ANNUAL AND
MONTHLY VISIT.
SO THE BARCIA IS ANNUAL VISITS.
THE BLUE BAR IS TWENTY NINETEEN
THAT'S OUR PRE PANDEMIC VISIT
LEVELS.
THE RED BAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND THEN THE GREEN IS TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND YOU CAN SEE
THAT TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE HAVE
EXCEEDED PRE PANDEMIC VISIT
LEVELS SHIFTING TO MONTHLY
VISITS.
THERE'S A LOT GOING ON IN THAT
GRAPH BUT I'LL DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE YELLOW BAR
THAT'S TWENTY TWENTY FIVE DATA
THOSE VISITS FROM JANUARY
THROUGH SEPTEMBER AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
WE HAVE EXCEEDED THAT SAME
PERIOD FROM TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
JUST LIKELY BY ABOUT ONE POINT
SIX PERCENT OR TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY THOUSAND VISITS.
SO WE'RE TRENDING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION ON DAILY ACTIVITY RED
BAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE GREEN
BARS ARE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE
ARE EXCEEDING TWENTY TWENTY FOR
EVERY DAY OF THE WEEK MONDAY
THROUGH THURSDAY THAT INCREASE
IS A LITTLE BIT HIGHER.
THOSE ARE DUE TO EMPLOYEE
VISITS AND WE ARE ASSUMING THAT
BECAUSE WE HAVE EMPLOYERS WHO
ARE MAYBE MAKING SOME CHANGES
TO THE WORK FROM HOME POLICIES
,HOURLY ACTIVITY, POSTPAID
ACTIVITY HAS SHIFTED TOWARD THE
EVENING VISITOR AND EMPLOYEE
VISITS DURING THE DAYTIME ARE
DOWN AND OUR EVENING ACTIVITY
IS GOING UP PARTICULARLY LATER
IN THE EVENING VISIT TRENDS WE
SHARE THIS GRAPH TO SHOW HOW
CLOSELY OUR DOWNTOWN ACTIVITY
IS TIED TO THE U.
OF M'S SCHEDULE AND CALENDAR.
SO BEGINNING IN JANUARY YOU CAN
SEE THAT JANUARY THROUGH MAY WE
HAVE SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITY
DOWNTOWN COME MAY WHEN CLASSES
END WE SEE A SIGNIFICANT DIP IN
OUR ACTIVITY MAY ALL THE WAY
THROUGH TO AUGUST.
WE DO HAVE ART HERE GIVING US A
REALLY NEEDED BUMP IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE SUMMER AUGUST
COME STUDENTS COME BACK AND WE
GET OUR ACTIVITY LEVELS GOING
BACK UP WITH SOME GREAT BUMPS
WITH HOME GAMES AND OF M
PARENTS WEEKEND I WON'T GO
THROUGH ALL OF THESE EVENTS.
I JUST WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT A
FEW GO DOWN TO THE IF YOU GO
DOWN TO THE MIDDLE OF THE SLIDE
YOU'LL SEE HOLIDAY SHOPPING
EVENTS.
THAT'S ACTUALLY ONE DAY THAT'S
KINDLE FEST AND MIDNIGHT
MADNESS THE FIRST FRIDAY IN
DECEMBER AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THAT
FRIDAY WAS FIFTY THREE PERCENT
HIGHER THAN OTHER FRIDAYS.
A TYPICAL FRIDAY IN NOVEMBER OR
DECEMBER.
SO THAT THAT HOLIDAY SHOPPING
EVENT THOSE TWO EVENTS ARE
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR OUR
DOWNTOWN HASH IS ANOTHER EVENT
THAT WE'VE ALWAYS KNOWN FROM
THE PARKING SIDE IS A VERY BUSY
DAY DOWNTOWN.
WE SEE THAT THROUGH OUR PARKING
NUMBERS AND NOW THAT WE HAVE
THIS VISITOR DATA WE CAN
CONFIRM THAT THIS YEAR IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE OF THE
SATURDAY HASH BASH WAS TWENTY
FIVE PERCENT HIGHER THAN A
TYPICAL SATURDAY APRIL THE ZACH
BRYAN CONCERT WAS GREAT FOR
DOWNTOWN VISITACION.
IT WAS LIKE A REALLY GOOD
FOOTBALL GAME AND WITH THOSE
MORGAN WOLLEN CONCERTS COMING
IN JULY I'M NOT SURE HOW HE
COMPARES IN POPULARITY TO ZACH
BRYANT BUT HAVING THOSE
CONCERTS IN THE SUMMER WILL BE
REALLY GOOD FOR FOR OUR
DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES AND THEN
YOU HAVE YOUR PARENTS WEEKEND
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THIS YEAR
THAT JUST THAT SATURDAY NOT THE
ENTIRE WEEKEND JUST THAT
SATURDAY WAS THIRTY ONE PERCENT
HIGHER THAN A TYPICAL HOME
GAME.
SO PARENTS WEEKEND REALLY
BRINGS A LOT OF ACTIVITY TO OUR
DOWNTOWN.
AND THEN TO SWITCH GEARS I JUST
WANT TO BRIEFLY TALK ABOUT OUR
BIKE COUNTERS.
WE SOMETIMES GET THE QUESTION
DOES ANYONE USE THE DOWNTOWN
BIKE WAY?
I AM HERE TO TELL YOU THAT YES
,PEOPLE ARE USING OUR BIKE WAY
AND WE KNOW THAT BECAUSE WE
HAVE COUNTERS ALONG EACH OF THE
FOUR LEGS OF THAT BIKE WAY.
SO THESE COUNTERS COUNT
PEDESTRIANS ALONG THE SIDEWALK
AND BIKES IN THE BIKE LANE.
THEY DO NOT COUNT SCOOTERS FOR
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE HAD OVER
THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND BIKES COUNTED
TEMPERATURE PRECIPITATION AND
YOU OF SCHEDULE ALL AFFECT USE
ALONG THE BIKEWAY OUR PEAK
MONTHS NOT A SURPRISE ARE
SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER AND OUR
BUSIEST BIKEWAY IS WILLIAM
STREET SO TAKING THOSE THREE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN THOUSAND
VISITS YOU GET A WEEKDAY
AVERAGE OF A LITTLE OVER NINE
HUNDRED POUNDS A DAY AND TO PUT
THAT IN PERSPECTIVE THE MAINARD
PARKING STRUCTURE HAS CAPACITY
FOR SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY
NINE CARS SO WE'RE NOT
SUGGESTING THAT EVERY COUNT
REPRESENTS SOMEBODY THAT WOULD
HAVE PARKED WITHIN OUR PARKING
SYSTEM BUT WE DO KNOW THAT EACH
COUNT DOES REPRESENT A TRIP
THAT WASN'T TAKEN IN SOMEBODY'S
PRIVATE VEHICLE AND THEN
FINALLY JUST A QUICK
DEVELOPMENT PLAN UPDATE I THINK
I MENTIONED THIS LAST TIME I
WAS HERE THE BOARD DID APPROVE
THE DRAFT PLAN TO PASS ON TO
COUNCIL BACK IN SEPTEMBER.
WE ARE WORKING REALLY HARD TO
TRY TO GET YOU THE FIRST STEP
IN THAT STATUTORY PROCESS AT
YOUR DECEMBER 15TH MEETING.
THAT'S YET TO BE SEEN IF WE ARE
ABLE TO DO THAT, YOU WOULD THEN
BE SETTING A PUBLIC HEARING AND
KICKING OFF THAT STATUTORY
PROCESS WHICH WOULD BRING US TO
APRIL FOR YOUR FINAL
CONSIDERATION OF OUR PLAN.
SO OUR FINGERS ARE CROSSED.
WE'RE HOPING HOPING THAT WE CAN
GET GET THERE IN DECEMBER.
AND I'LL JUST NOTE THAT ONE
PARTICULAR ITEM IN THAT PLAN WE
BELIEVE IS CRITICAL AND THAT'S
ESTABLISHING THE DOWNTOWN
SERVICE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO WAIT IN
TERMS OF GETTING PREPARED TO
GET THAT SERVICE TEAM IN PLACE.
SO WE ISSUED AN RFP THE FIRST
WEEK IN NOVEMBER AND WE INTEND
TO HAVE THINGS READY TO GO.
SHOULD YOU APPROVE OUR PLAN AND
GET THAT TEAM OFF THE GROUND AS
SOON AS WE CAN.
>> THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WELL, WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
PUBLIC RESERVE TIME WHAT NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
>> SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME'S
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ROBERT MALCOLM, SENIOR.
GOOD EVENING MR. MAYOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS IT WAS ROBERT
MALCOLM SENIOR.
I'M A RESIDENT OF THE FIFTH
WARD AND I AM A FIFTY YEAR
MEMBER OF LABOR'S LOCAL FOR
NINETY NINE AND A LIFETIME
RESIDENT OF AN UPPER.
I COME FOR YOU TODAY
REPRESENTING MEMBERS OF LABOR'S
LOCAL FOUR NINETY NINE WHO LIVE
AND WORK IN THE CITY TO URGE TO
SUPPORT THE OBVIOUS SELF
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT THIS
PROJECT WILL CREATE HUNDREDS
OF JOBS FOR MEMBERS OF THE
LABORERS AND HUNDREDS MORE FOR
THE ALLIED TRADES PEOPLE TOTAL
NUMBER OF TRADES PEOPLE WORKING
ON THIS PROJECT WILL NO NEAR
ONE THOUSAND INDIVIDUAL OR THE
LENGTH OF THE PROJECT.
THERE ARE MIDDLE CLASS
SUPPORTING CAREERS THAT ARE
CRITICAL TO ENSURE IN OUR HAS A
DIVERSIFIED ECONOMY AND A
STRONG CONSTRUCTION BASE OUR
MEMBERS JUST LIKE MANY
RESIDENTS OF OUR COMMUNITY ARE
STRUGGLING WITH AFFORDABILITY.
THIS PROJECT IS NOT ONLY A JOB
CREATOR BUT THE PROJECT WILL
ADD MANY HOUSING UNITS TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING OF ALL
TYPES AND WITH THIS PROJECT
SLATED TO ADD TWO HUNDRED UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IT IS A
STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
WORKING CLASS PEOPLE DEPENDENT
ON ALL OF YOU TO DELIVER
HOUSING DESPERATELY NEED TO
KEEP PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY WE
CAN'T THAT A PERFECT BE THE
ENEMY OF THE GOOD.
IN SUMMARY, I URGE THIS BODY TO
APPROVE THE NEEDED ITEMS TO
ALLOW FOR CONSTRUCTION OF OUR S
THE JOBS, THE HOUSING, THE
REALIZATION OF THE PORTION
OF THE CITY WILL BRING SO MUCH
GOOD TO OUR COMMUNITY.
PLEASE KEEP WORKING ON THIS
ISSUE TO BE A BETTER AND
BRIGHTER ENABLER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
.
>> YOUR CLOTHES ALEX LOWE.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN FROM
PITTSFIELD MILLEPIED SORRY THAT
I DIDN'T MANAGE TO BE THERE IN
PERSON WORK WENT OVER TODAY SO
I BARELY MANAGED TO JOIN THE
MEETING VIRTUALLY.
WHAT DID SPEAK TO YOU TONIGHT
ABOUT DSU?
I ALSO HAVE COMMENTS ABOUT THIS
ONE BUT I'LL ADDRESS THOSE IN
THE PUBLIC HEARING OF ABOUT
THIS ONE.
AND I HOPE THAT WHEN WE HAVE
THAT PUBLIC HEARING I WILL KEEP
PEOPLE ON TOPIC AS I HAVE
ALREADY SEEN SOME
MISINFORMATION GOING OUT TODAY
ABOUT THAT PUBLIC HEARING AND
ITS APPLICATION TODAY TO I AM
STRONGLY IN SUPPORT OF OF MORE
HOUSING.
I THINK THAT EVERYONE ON
COUNCIL IS WELL ENOUGH FAMILIAR
WITH ME TO KNOW THAT THAT THAT
I AM CONSTANTLY CONSTANTLY
PEACEBUILDERS, PEACEBUILDERS,
PEACEBUILDERS.
>> BUT JUST THIS ONCE I WOULD
SAY AT LEAST ABOUT DSU PLEASE
DON'T USE DSHEA IS A POISON
PILL THAT MAY WELL CAUSE IBS TO
NOT ONLY BE THE LESS THAN
PERFECT AS AS AS PEOPLE HAVE
SAID BUT BUT IN FACT IN THE
LONG TERM SUPPRESS MORE HOUSING
AND THIS IS THIS IS DANGEROUS.
WE NEED HOUSING THAT WORKS WITH
TRANSIT NOT AGAINST IT AND WE
CERTAINLY DO NOT NEED CITY
BOMBS IN TO THE TUNE OF ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX MILLION
DOLLARS TO BUILD YET MORE
PARKING STRUCTURES IN AN AREA
THAT IS ALREADY OVER THE WHOLE
STRUCTURE OF WHO SEEMS TO
ESSENTIALLY PUT THE RISK ONTO
THE ONTO THE CITY WHILE THE
PROFITS DON'T GO ANYWHERE
ANYWHERE NEAR THE CITY AND AND
REMAIN IN PRIVATE HANDS.
>> I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A CASE
WHERE IF THE CITY WERE TO WERE
TO ACTUALLY GO THROUGH WITH US
SOME OF THE CONSPIRACY
THEORISTS WHO REGULARLY THERE
MOST WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE SOME
REASONABLE AMMO AND THAT I
WOULD WANT THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
IVANNA.
>> MR VONAGE IS ALSO JOINING SO
ERIKA VONAGE, GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ERIC IVANCICH CALLING
FROM THE THIRD WARD TO SPEAK TO
ITEM DOWN TO THE FINANCING
SURROUNDING THE ARBOR S
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE IS CERTAINLY A LOT TO
APPRECIATE ABOUT THIS PROJECT
IN AS MANY PROMISING ELEMENTS
AND I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE EFFORT
THAT HAS GONE INTO IT SO FAR.
HOWEVER, IN ITS CURRENT FORM I
FOUND MYSELF UNABLE TO SUPPORT
IT FIRST.
>> HERE'S WHAT I THINK IS
STRONG ABOUT THE PROJECT THE
STATE EISENHAUER AREAS
PERFECTLY POSITIONED TO EVOLVE
INTO OUR CITY'S SECOND DOWNTOWN
.
>> IT HAS LAND READY TO REUSE
AND REINVESTMENT AND I DEEPLY
APPRECIATE COUNCIL'S EARLIER
WORK TO ESTABLISH A QUARTER
ZONING HERE THAT GROUND WORK
MATTERS.
>> THE PROJECT ALSO REPLACES
SURFACE PARKING AND A GAS
STATION WITH RETAIL SPACE AND
MUCH NEEDED HOMES.
>> TWENTY PERCENT OF IT BEING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ALONG WITH
THE REDEVELOPMENT HAPPENING ON
BRIARWOOD, THIS COULD SPARK
EVEN MORE POSITIVE
TRANSFORMATION IN THE
SURROUNDING AREA.
>> I ALSO WANT TO UNDERSCORE
HOW VALUABLE PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS AND BROWNFIELD TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING ARE AS
TOOLS FOR OUR CITY.
>> THEY HELP US GUIDE
REDEVELOPMENT IN WAYS THAT MEET
BOTH OUR PRESENT AND OUR FUTURE
NEEDS.
>> IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT A FEW
VERY LOUD VOICES ARE SPREADING
MISINFORMATION ABOUT THESE
TOOLS AND ABOUT CITY
ADMINISTRATION AND CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO ARE WORKING TO
EMPLOY THEM FOR COLLECTIVE
BENEFIT.
WE NEED CLARITY AND GOOD FAITH
CONVERSATIONS.
ADDITIONALLY, REDEVELOPMENT
DOESN'T SIMPLY HAPPEN WITHOUT
DEVELOPERS.
THEY'RE EASY TARGETS FOR THOSE
WHO WISH TO STALL PROGRESS AND
THEY HAVE BEEN THE FOCUS
OF MUCH NEGATIVITY HERE AND
SURROUNDING OUR CONVERSATIONS
ON THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN.
>> PLEASE LET'S CONSIDER THAT
OUR VERY OWN HOMES MYSELF MY
OWN HOME INCLUDED WOULD NOT
EXIST WITHOUT DEVELOPERS.
>> YET WITH ALL THAT SAID, I
CANNOT SUPPORT THE PROJECT AS
IS CURRENTLY STRUCTURED MY MAIN
CONCERN IS THE EXPECTATION THAT
THE CITY WOULD PAY FOR OUR
OPERATE AND MAINTAIN THREE NEW
PARKING STRUCTURES THAT SERVE
PRIMARILY IF NOT EXCLUSIVELY
THIS PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT THAT
PLACES A SIGNIFICANT RISK ON
THE PUBLIC WHILE WE'RE LEAVING
THE DEVELOPER
OF RESPONSIBILITIES THAT SHOULD
REMAIN THEIRS, IT CREATES A
MORAL HAZARD THAT I DON'T
BELIEVE WE CAN JUSTIFY IF WE
ARE GOING TO ENGAGE IN PUBLIC
INVESTMENT TO SUPPORT THIS
PROJECT IT SHOULD BE TOWARD
INFRASTRUCTURE BENEFITS THE
ENTIRE DISTRICT TRANSIT WATER
SEWER, NON MOTORIZED MOBILITY
AND LONG TERM AREA WIDE
IMPROVEMENTS.
>> AND WITH AN ACTIVE RAIL LINE
LESS THAN A THOUSAND FEET FROM
THIS SITE, THE OPPORTUNITY TO
CONNECT THIS AREA TO DOWNTOWN
IS TANTALIZING.
>> I ONCE I WANT TO KNOWLEDGE
THE TREMENDOUS WORK THAT AH HAS
ALREADY GONE INTO THIS
PROPOSAL.
>> MY HOPE IS THAT CITY STAFF,
THE DEVELOPER AND ALL OF CITY
COUNCIL CAN WORK CONSTRUCTIVELY
AND POSITIVELY TOGETHER TO
RESHAPE THE PROJECT IS
SOMETHING THAT MEETS OUR SHARED
GOALS, SOMETHING WE CAN ALL
SUPPORT WHOLEHEARTEDLY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD.
GOOD EVENING.
TODAY A FRIEND SHARED A TIC-TAC
WITH ME.
I DON'T USUALLY GO TO TIC-TAC
BECAUSE IT'S JUST TOO MUCH TO
DO ANYWAY.
IT WASN'T A VIDEO GAME FORMAT
AND IT WAS INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW
TO SAFELY CROSS THE STREET AT A
CROSSWALK AND THERE WAS A
LITTLE GUY AND HE CAME OUT HE
LOOKED RIGHT.
HE LOOKED LAUGHED.
HE LOOKED RIGHT.
HE MADE EYE CONTACT WITH THE
DRIVER.
HE STARTED OUT HE GAVE A THUMBS
UP AND HE CROSSED THE STREET.
THEN THERE WERE A FEW EXAMPLES
OF HOW NOT TO CROSS THE STREET.
UNFORTUNATELY EVERY TIME THE
LITTLE GUY WENT TO CROSS AND
DIDN'T DO IT RIGHT WHEN THE
VEHICLE WENT FLYING IN THE AIR
WHICH WAS REALLY HILARIOUS
BECAUSE THIS WAS DOWN IN
NASHVILLE.
NOW THIS WOULDN'T BE FUNNY IN
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE WE HAVE SO
MANY PEDESTRIANS HIT BY CARS.
IT'S JUST NOT FUNNY.
SO ANYWAY, LOOK AT TICK TOCK IF
YOU RUN ON A MORE SERIOUS NOTE
,I WANT TO EXPRESS SINCERE
GRATITUDE TO THE MANY COMMUNITY
MEMBERS ADVOCATES CITY STAFF
WHO HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS IN AND
OUR PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE
OVER THE PAST TWO DECADES.
SOMETIMES I FORGET ABOUT ALL
THE PROGRESS THAT WE'VE MADE
AND SOME OF THESE IMPROVEMENTS
HAVE BEEN ENHANCED CROSSWALK
MARKINGS, IMPROVED LIGHTING AND
ESPECIALLY THE ADOPTION OF THE
RECTANGULAR RAPID FLASHING
BEACONS THAT ARE RFID.
ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS THE
CROSSWALK NEAR HURON HIGH
SCHOOL ON HURON PARKWAY AND
WHILE THIS AND OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS IN SCHOOLS ARE
COMMENDABLE, WE MUST ALSO
REMEMBER THE TRAGIC LOSS OF A
STUDENT IN 2016 WHICH SERVED AS
A CATALYST FOR THESE CHANGES.
THIS UNDERSCORES THE IMPORTANCE
OF PROACTIVE RATHER THAN
REACTIVE SAFETY MEASURES
.
I'M JUST GOING TO SKIP OVER THE
REST OF WHAT I HAD PLANNED TO
SAY BECAUSE I WANT TO SAY
SOMETHING POSITIVE BUT WE ARE
AT A TIPPING POINT AND THAT
TIPPING POINT IS THE TWO WAY
CYCLE TRACK AND MILLER AVENUE
AND WHEN THAT HAPPENS AND
SOMEONE IS CRITICALLY INJURED
OR DIES AFTER IT WAS
RECOMMENDED THAT IT NOT BE
IMPLEMENTED, I WOULD EXPECT A
RESIGNATION FROM EVERYONE
SITTING HERE BECAUSE THERE IS
ABSOLUTELY NO REASON FOR
DENYING THE NEED FOR
SIGHTLINES, SIGHTLINES ARE AN
ENGINEERING STANDARD UNLESS WE
CAN BEND LIGHT WE NEED
SIGHTLINES AND WE HAVE IGNORED
THEM.
IT IS ASPIRATIONAL AND SOMEONE
IS GOING TO DIE IN THAT TO A
CYCLE TRACK WITHIN THE FIRST
YEAR AND WHEN THEY DO PLEASE
RESIGN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PUAN BAILEY
.
HELLO.
HOW ARE YOU DOING TODAY?
SO I KNOW OTHER PEOPLE CAME IN
AND JUST BECAUSE I WAS JUST
BASED ON LIKE THE BILL AND
EMPLOYMENT AND THINGS OF THAT
BUT I'M ALSO I WANT TO TALK TO
YOU GUYS ABOUT A PERSONAL ISSUE
MORE SO I MEAN FOR ME BUT LIKE
PERSONAL PERSONALITY SO LIKE
I'VE SEEN YOU AT THE JUNETEENTH
CELEBRATION A FEW MORE THINGS
THAT MY KIDS I RECEIVED AWARDS
IT AND I HAVE OVER THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE, THE PITTSVILLE
POLICE AS WELL AS SHERIFF DYER
SAID THAT YOU GUYS OR THEY ARE
NO LONGER DOING CERTAIN
PRACTICES AS FAR AS LIKE POLICE
STOPS AND THINGS OF THAT NATURE
.
SO I WANT TO SEE IF I WILL BE
ABLE TO GET SOME LITERATURE ON
THAT TO SEE HOW THE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY THIS LIKE
AS FAR AS LIKE MYSELF SO LIKE
I'M A 40 YEAR OLD MALE BLACK
MALE BULLIVANT ARBOR FOR THE
PAST TWENTY THREE YEARS SINCE
I'VE BEEN NINETEEN YEARS OLD
SINCE I FIRST CAME TO ANN ARBOR
I'VE AGAIN STOPPED BY THE
POLICE LIKE SEVERAL TIMES AND
TO THE POINT WHERE I'M GETTING
TICKETS TO WHERE IT'S OVER MY
HEAD SO WHERE IT'S AFFECTING
LIKE MY FAMILY SO LIKE I
HAVEN'T BEEN STOPPED BY ANN
ARBOR POLICE AND MAYBE LIKE
THREE YEARS BUT THE REST OF THE
AGENCIES FROM UNIVERSITY
POLICE, EASTERN MICHIGAN
POLICE, EVERYBODY IN THE COUNTY
BECAUSE LIKE I FIT THE
DESCRIPTION WHEREVER HE IS
GOING, THAT'S HOW I FEEL AND
THAT'S WHAT'S BEEN HAPPENING.
AND I'M LIKE YES, ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE
IN ANN ARBOR ABOUT SIX PERCENT
OF THE PEOPLE ARE SIX PERCENT
OF THE POPULATION.
ARBOR IS BLACK SO THAT'S ABOUT
SIX SEVEN THOUSAND PEOPLE OR
SO.
AND I'M JUST LIKE HOW IS IT
THAT I CONTINUE TO BE STOPPED
FROM GRADUATION OF HIGH SCHOOL
TO FORTY ONE YEARS OLD?
I'M A FATHER.
I DON'T LIVE HERE.
I HAVE TEN BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN
THAT I HAVE RAISED HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
NO GOVERNMENT HOUSING, NO
S.A.G. VOUCHER.
NO I KNEW THAT I'VE BEEN
WORKING MAN FOR THE ENTIRE TIME
I'VE BEEN HERE SO FOR ME TO
CONTINUE TO HAVE TO GO TO THIS
OR I'M HAVING TIKI'S WHERE I
LIKE I'VE SPENT LIKE TWO
HUNDRED AND FORTY SIX THOUSAND
DOLLARS SINCE 2002 ON TRAFFIC
TICKETS AND DRIVER
RESPONSIBILITY FEES AND THINGS
OF THAT NATURE REGARDING
TRAFFIC STOPS AND WASHTENAW
COUNTY ALONE.
SO LIKE THIS RIGHT HERE IT
AFFECTS THE LIVELIHOOD OF MY
FAMILY.
SO I UNDERSTAND I MAY NOT LOOK
LIKE A LOT OF SOME PEOPLE I MAY
HAVE THE ACCOLADES LIKE I EVEN
HAVE TO DROP OUT OF COLLEGE
SIMPLY BECAUSE I'VE HAD SO MANY
TRAFFIC STOPS TO THE POINT I'M
GOING TO JAIL IN THE MIDDLE
OF MY SEMESTER LIKE AS A
STUDENT.
SO LIKE I UNDERSTAND I MAY LOOK
LIKE WHATEVER THE CASE MAY BE
BUT LIKE WHEN I GET STOPPED OR
WHATEVER I SAY YOU DON'T FIND
ANYTHING IN THE CAR.
I GET LOADED WITH ALL THESE
TICKETS SO I'M GETTING FOUR OR
FIVE TICKETS PER TRAFFIC STOP
AND THEN I'M GOING TO COURT.
I'M PUTTING MY I'M GETTING PUT
IN A SITUATION WHERE I'M ON THE
HAMSTER WHEEL.
I'M FORTY ONE YEARS OLD.
I HAVE TEN CHILDREN, THREE
OF THEM CHILDREN.
I WILL BECAUSE I HAVE THREE
CHILDREN IN COLLEGE RIGHT NOW I
STILL HAVE SEVEN MORE CHILDREN
THAT I'M RAISING HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
I'M A SINGLE FATHER AND LIKE I
SAY LIKE I DON'T USE ANY OF THE
GOVERNMENT OR ANYTHING OF THAT
NATURE.
I'VE BEEN WORKING SINCE I'VE
BEEN A CHILD.
>> SO I'M ASKING YOU THE
COUNCIL WHAT MAY BE A PLACE FOR
PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN AFFECTED
BY THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
OR OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
ABOUBAKAR IBRAHIM
.
MR. IBRAHIM IS ON ZOOME PLEASE
PRESS STAR SIX TO RAISE YOUR
HAND
.
I DO NOT SEE THIS CALLER ONLINE
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN
.
HOLD ON
>> THANK YOU FOR TWENTY TWO
YEARS WE HAVE BEEN DEMANDING A
RESOLUTION IN THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL IN TWENTY THREE
WE ARE HERE AGAIN DEMANDING
ACTION AGAINST ISRAEL.
RACHEL CORRIE WAS MURDERED BY
ISRAEL THAT YEAR.
>> A YOUNG WOMAN KILLED BY AN
ISRAELI BULLDOZER.
DO YOU REMEMBER HER IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN?
WE WERE HERE WHEN ISRAEL WAS
PHYSICALLY SHOOTING DOWN
THOUSANDS OF HUMAN RIGHTS
MARCHERS IN GAZA.
UNARMED HUMAN RIGHTS MARCHERS
IN GAZA SHOT DOWN BY ISRAEL
TENS TENS OF THOUSANDS WOUNDED
,HUNDREDS KILLED BY ISRAEL
UNARMED PALESTINIANS IN GAZA
SINCE THIS GENOCIDE THAT ISRAEL
HAS BEEN COMMITTING IN GAZA
STARTING IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AND CONTINUING
UNTIL TODAY, ISRAEL HAS KILLED
OFFICIALLY SIXTY NINE THOUSAND
PALESTINIANS UNOFFICIALLY THERE
ARE PROBABLY HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS BURIED UNDER
RUBBLE AND ALLEYS AND GOD KNOWS
WHERE ONE OF THOSE HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS WAS THIS LITTLE
TINY GIRL HINDURAO JOB ISRAEL
SHOT THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
FIVE ROUNDS INTO THE VEHICLE.
THIS LITTLE GIRL WAS SITTING IN
WHIMPERING TRYING TO GET HELP
ON HER PHONE AND WE HAVE THAT
AUDIO AND YOU WILL SEE IT IN A
MOVIE IN A MONTH OR SO IN
THEATERS HERE CALLED THE VOICE
OF HINDUJA.
THIS IS ONE THIS LITTLE TINY
GIRL WAS ONE OF THE POSSIBLY
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS KILLED BY
ISRAEL IN THIS GENOCIDE.
SO WE ARE ASKING AGAIN WE'RE
ASKING AGAIN FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL TO APPROVE A RESOLUTION
THAT SIMPLY SAYS WE ARE AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL AND
ARBOR COUNCIL MEMBER I SHOULD
GHAZI EDWYN HAS SIGNED A LETTER
SAYING IT'S A GENOCIDE AND
YEAH, WE SHOULD STOP ARMING
ISRAEL.
ANN ARBOR OFFICIALS SUCH AS
KERRY RYAN GUNS HAVE SIGNED
THEIR NAME TO A RESOLUTION IN
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE SAYING
BASICALLY YEAH, IT'S A GENOCIDE
AND YEAH, WE SHOULD STOP ARMING
ISRAEL EITHER AND ARBOR ANWAR
WASHTENAW COUNTY OFFICIALS HAVE
SIGNED LETTERS AND RESOLUTIONS
SAYING THIS IS A GENOCIDE.
WHY AREN'T YOU APPROVING THE
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL?
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOST GUN
SAVABLE.
>> STEPHANIE.
HELLO, NARBONNE.
I'M HERE AGAIN TO SAY THAT WE
MUST CUT OFF MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL AND THIS MAYOR AND THIS
WHOLE OF THE CITY COUNCIL MUST
STOP BLOCKING THIS RESOLUTION
AFTER TWENTY TWO YEARS
YESTERDAY I WAS IN A SEMINAR
ABOUT HEALTH IN GAZA AND I
LEARNED ABOUT DR. ADNAN AL
SHOURD WHO WAS RAPED TO DEATH
BY ISRAELI MILITARY DOCTOR
ADNAN AL BUSH WHO WAS RAPED
UNTIL HE DIED BY ISRAELI
MILITARY.
NOW I KNOW THAT PEOPLE IN THIS
TOWN DO NOT SUPPORT RAPE TO
DEATH.
I KNOW THIS TOWN DOES NOT
SUPPORT THIS GENOCIDE.
HOWEVER, THOSE WHO HAVE FOUND
THEIR WAYS INTO POSITIONS
OF POWER, INCLUDING OUR MAYOR
AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS APPEAR
TO HAVE NO REGARD FOR WHAT THIS
PUBLIC NEEDS.
>> I AM SURE WE CAN ALL AGREE
YOU CANNOT BE A PUBLIC SERVANT
IF YOU DO NOT SERVE THE PUBLIC.
>> THAT IS ACTUALLY THE CASE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
FOR TEN YEARS THEY HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND THEY HAVE NOT
REMEDIED THIS SITUATION WHILE
WE GET HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF APARTMENTS GOING UP IN ANN
ARBOR WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH
HOUSING AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO
OFFER TO OUR CITIZENS AT THE
HIGH RISES GO UP, SO DO THE
LINE OF PEOPLE WAITING FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> WHY IS THAT?
WE'RE NOT AGAINST DEVELOPERS.
WE ARE AGAINST DEVELOPERS WHO
ONLY LINE THEIR OWN POCKETS AND
LEAVE THE PUBLIC IN A DITCH WE
ARE AGAINST WHEN WE HAVE TO PAY
FOR THE PROFIT OF DEVELOPERS
AND WE END UP WITHOUT HOMES AND
HOMELESS.
SO AS YOU CAN SEE ANN ARBOR,
THIS CITY COUNCIL AND THIS
MAYOR ARE NOT SERVING US.
WE NEED TO DO WHAT NEW YORK
DID.
WHAT DID THEY DO?
THEY KICKED OUT MR. ANDREW
CUOMO.
TWENTY TWO MILLION DOLLARS IN
HIS SUPPORT.
THEY KICKED HIM OUT AND THEY
CHOSE MR. MAMDANI ZORAN MAMDANI
WITH TWENTY TWO MILLION DOLLARS
AGAINST HIM STAND ONE AND
KICKED OUT A BIG ZIONIST.
>> MR. CUOMO, WE CAN DO THE
SAME HERE.
>> OUR MAYOR ONLY GOT NINETY
THOUSAND DOLLARS LAST TIME, NOT
TWENTY TWO MILLION.
>> WE CAN REMOVE HIM FROM HIS
SEAT BECAUSE HE OBVIOUSLY IS
NOT HELPING THE PUBLIC.
WE CAN REMOVE HIM.
WE CAN REMOVE MEMBERS OF THIS
CITY COUNCIL AND REPLACE THEM
WITH THOSE WHO WILL FIGHT FOR
THE PUBLIC INSTEAD OF GIVING
EXCUSES WHY THEY CAN'T THANK
YOU.
SO PLEASE FIRST THE CITY
COUNCIL TO CUT OFF MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
THANK YOU.
ALSO COME AND LET'S TAKE THEM
OUT.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL CANCIAN
BRITISH I DIDN'T WANT TO GO
FIRST BECAUSE I WAS HOPING
SOMEBODY ELSE WOULD GIVE SOME
DETAILS BUT I WILL GO FIRST SO
I WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO VOTING
YES TONIGHT ON THE PUBLIC
PRIVATE AGREEMENT AND THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR OUR SOUTH.
>> THAT'S A PROPOSED NEW
DEVELOPMENT THAT WILL BRING
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING TO ANN
ARBOR BOTH INCOME QUALIFIED
AFFORDABLE AND MARKET RATE ON
THE STATE AND EISENHAUER
TRANSIT CORRIDOR.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST REAL
PROJECT WITH A POTENTIAL TO
REALIZE THE POLICY VISION
OF THE CITY'S TWENTY TWENTY ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR ZONING
INITIATIVE WHICH WE ALL CALLED
TSHWANE.
SO AS YOU KNOW THIS TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ZONING INITIATIVE
SEEKS TO PROVIDE INCENTIVES TO
CREATE NEW MIXED USE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT ON TRANSIT
CORRIDORS THAT ARE LOCATED AT
THE PERIPHERY OF OUR CITY AND
THERE'S A REASON WHY THESE
AREAS HOLD UNREELED SIZED
POTENTIAL FOR RESIDENTIAL AND
RETAIL DEVELOPMENT CURRENTLY
THEY ARE MOSTLY GIVEN OVER TO
SERVICE PARKING LOTS.
THEY HAVE NOT BENEFITED FROM
THE HISTORY OF PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT THAT
SUPPORTS OUR DENSELY POPULATED
MIXED USE DOWNTOWN.
>> SO TO REALIZE OUR S THE
DEVELOPER WILL INVEST OVER 400
MILLION DOLLARS AND BROWNFIELD
TAX INCENTIVE FINANCING WILL BE
USED TO PROVIDE APPROXIMATELY
346 MILLION IN PUBLIC MONIES.
YES, THIS MONEY WILL BE SPENT
IN PART NOT INFL TO BUILD THREE
PARKING STRUCTURES THAT ARE
FINANCIAL ANALYST TELLS US ARE
NECESSARY TO REALIZE THE
PROJECT THE PROJECT IS DOING
WHAT THE CITY ANTICIPATED FOR
ITS TRANSIT CORRIDOR
INITIATIVE.
IT IS A MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT
TO BE BUILT ON TOP OF SURFACE
PARKING LOTS THAT CURRENTLY
PROVIDE 15 SPACES FOR PEOPLE
WHO WORK THERE.
THE THREE PARKING STRUCTURES
WOULD PROVIDE 200 NO 2400 AND
76 VEHICLE SPACES.
>> IF YOU'RE LISTENING AND
COUNTING THAT MEANS ADDING JUST
1000 NEW SPACES TO SERVE 1000
NEW UNITS OF HOUSING 209
OF WHICH ARE PERMANENTLY
AFFORDABLE AND TO SERVE 100000
SQUARE FEET OF NEW RETAIL.
>> THE NEED FOR PARKING
STRUCTURES TO REPLACE SURFACE
PARKING IT DOESN'T I THINK IT'S
EASY TO SEE AND I KNOW THERE
ARE CONCERNS ABOUT THE CITY
OWNING, OPERATING AND
MAINTAINING THESE PARKING
STRUCTURES BUT IT IS THE ONLY
FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE WAY TO
WORK AT THAT.
THESE STRUCTURES BE PROVIDED BY
THE CITY AND THEREFORE NOT BE
TAXED AT A RATE THAT MAKES THIS
DEVELOPMENT UNREALIZABLE THE
REIMBURSEMENT SO THE STRUCTURES
WILL BE PAID FOR THROUGH TIF
REIMBURSEMENT.
>> THIS DOES NOT TIE UP NEW TAX
REVENUE.
IT USES TAX REVENUE THAT WOULD
NOT EXIST AT ALL WITHOUT A NEW
DEVELOPMENT AND THAT IS WHAT
REIMBURSES THE COSTS
OF CREATING THE VALUE THAT
CREATE THAT GENERATES THE NEW
TAX REVENUE.
>> THE PARKING STRUCTURES ARE
THE FIRST COST TO BE REIMBURSED
IN THE BROWNFIELD PLAN.
>> THEY ARE DESIGNATED PRIORITY
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> YES, YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT
THAT JUST MEANS THEY'RE FIRST
TO BE REIMBURSED, NOT THE FIRST
TO BE CREATED .
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL COUNCILOR HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU TO EVERYONE WHO CAME
OUT TO THE PREMIER OF A IN ANN
ARBOR AND THE TRUTH AND
RECONCILIATION PROGRAM THAT
FOLLOWED YOUR PRESENCE,
ENGAGEMENT AND REFLECTIONS MADE
A GREAT DEAL.
I ESPECIALLY WANT TO THANK
FILMMAKER OLIVIA MITCHELL WHO
TOLD THE STORY WITH CLARITY,
RESPECT AND A DEEP SENSE
OF RESPONSIBILITY TO THE
COMMUNITY.
I AM ALSO DEEPLY GRATEFUL TO
THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
AGREED TO BE INTERVIEWED FOR
THE FILM IN PARTICULAR I WOULD
LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE BLAKE
SHELTON WHOSE WILLINGNESS TO
SHARE HIS STORY WAS SIGNIFICANT
AND DEEPLY APPRECIATE IT.
>> THANK YOU AS WELL TO THE
MAYOR AND CHIEF ANDRE ANDERSON
FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE PANEL
DISCUSSION AND FOR OFFERING AN
APOLOGY THAT KNOWLEDGE THE HARM
OF AN ARBORIST DNA DRAGNET FOR
ANYONE WHO'S NOT WHO IS NOT
ABLE TO ATTEND.
THE DOCUMENTARY IS NOW
AVAILABLE THROUGH THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY AT ADL DAG FOR
SLASH A IN ANN NO THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE OTHER FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S JUST A
COUPLE OF THINGS I WANTED TO
POINT RESIDENTS TO ON IN OUR
ENGAGE WEBSITE THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF AREAS WHERE FOLKS CAN
PROVIDE PUBLIC FEEDBACK.
WHAT IS THE RIGHT SIZING SHOULD
HAVE COME UP IN FRONT OF ME THE
ANIBA RODWAY RIGHT SIZING
PROJECT?
THANK YOU.
WHICH GIVES PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO VISIT OUR MAJOR
ARTERIALS VIA SURVEY PROVIDED
THOUGHTS ON WHERE THEY THINK
SAFETY COULD BE IMPROVED AND
DOCUMENT KIND OF BY PUTTING
PUTTING A LITTLE PIN ON A MAP
OF SOME OF THE PROBLEM
LOCATIONS.
SO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TAKE THAT
SURVEY AND IDENTIFY SOME OF THE
KNOWN SAFETY RISKS ON THESE
CORRIDORS.
ALSO I'VE BEEN RECEIVING A FAIR
AMOUNT OF INQUIRIES FROM
RESIDENTS AROUND 7TH AND MILLER
AND THOSE PROJECTS AND DO YOU
WANT FOLKS TO KNOW THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL AND I HAVE BEEN
IN COMMUNICATION WITH STAFF
THERE CERTAINLY RECOGNIZING
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROGRESS
KIND OF PROJECTS SEQUENCING
WASN'T AS IDEAL AS MIGHT HAVE
BEEN HOPED.
>> THERE'S GOING BE A LITTLE
BIT OF REFLECTION ON THIS AFTER
WE GET THROUGH THESE PROJECTS.
>> MILLER IS DUE TO BE REOPENED
FOR TRAFFIC ON THE 22ND SO I
KNOW THAT MANY WILL BE EXCITED
ABOUT THAT COUNCILOR HAD THANK
YOU MAYOR.
SO YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT TO SAY
A LITTLE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
SNAP BENEFITS AND WE KNOW THAT
PEOPLE ARE REALLY STRUGGLING
RIGHT NOW.
THERE HAVE BEEN YOU A RECENT
CUTS AND THERE'S ALSO FUNDING
THAT IS IN LIMBO AND THERE'S
ANTICIPATION THAT WE MAY SEE
THE HIGHEST RATES OF HUNGER
AMONG INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES
SINCE THE GREAT DEPRESSION AND
THAT INCLUDES THIRTY THOUSAND
RESIDENTS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
ALONE WHO POTENTIALLY COULD
LOSE ACCESS TO SNAP BENEFITS.
>> I WANT TO SHARE THAT LAST
WEEK I VISITED COMMUNITY ACTION
NETWORK WHICH IS A LOCAL WARD
THREE ORGANIZATION.
IT'S ALSO THE LARGEST FOOD
PANTRY DISTRIBUTOR IN THE
COUNTY AND LAST WEEK ALONE THEY
PROVIDED THE SEVEN HUNDRED
INDIVIDUALS WITH FOOD AND MANY
OF THEM REPORTED THAT THEY
RECEIVED MAYBE PART OF THEIR
BENEFITS FOR THE MONTH AND THAT
THEY'RE REALLY, REALLY
STRUGGLING.
>> I WANT TO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF FOOD
GATHERERS FOOD DISTRIBUTION
SITE WHICH IS AT BRIARWOOD MALL
.
THEY'LL BE DISTRIBUTING FOOD
AGAIN ON NOVEMBER 19TH FROM
NINE THIRTY TO ELEVEN THIRTY AM
IN THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE
PARKING LOT TO REACH OUT TO
RESOURCES LIKE BARRIER BUSTERS
IF THEY'RE HAVING DIFFICULTY
WITH PAYING THEIR UTILITY
BILLS.
>> AND IN ADDITION I'VE ALSO
HEARD FROM RESIDENTS ABOUT
WHETHER OUR CITY WOULD CONSIDER
DOING SOMETHING LIKE PUTTING A
TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON FEES
AND FINES FOR WATER AND SEWER
WHICH OTHER CITIES HAVE DONE
SUCH AS SELLING.
>> IT IS SOMETHING THAT I HAVE
LOOKED INTO WITH STAFF.
I'M HAPPY TO REPORT THAT
FORTUNATELY OUR CITY DOES NOT
CHARGE LATE FEES ON WATER SEWER
BILLS.
IN FACT WE DO INCENTIVIZE
CUSTOMERS AND RESIDENTS TO PAY
THEIR BILLS EARLIER.
YOU CAN GO ON A PAYMENT PLAN
FOR THEM AS WELL.
YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
AT A TWO OR A TUG BACKSLASH
SERVICES BACKSLASH PAYING MY
WATER BILL AND IN THE MEANTIME
I AM WORKING WITH CITY STAFF TO
SEE IF THERE MAY BE OTHER WAYS
THAT WE COULD HELP SUPPORT
PEOPLE DURING THIS DIFFICULT
TIME.
>> THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
.
>> I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO COUNCIL ON NOVEMBER SIX
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THE LOCAL
OFFICERS COMPENSATION
COMMISSION BRIAN WEINERT TO THE
EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES CASEY
WALBRIDGE THE MOTION PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNSEL MCCONNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
REGINA DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
PHONE MA'AM.
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
RENTERS COMMISSION.
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE
>> SHEILA RASOULI WE WE HAVE
RENTERS COMMISSION.
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
>> SHEILA RASOULI WE WE HAVE
MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
COUNCIL MEMBER THE SECOND
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
COUNCIL MEMBER THE SECOND
DISCUSSION OF CONSENT AGENDA
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
COUNSEL BRITISH I'D LIKE TO
DISCUSSION OF CONSENT AGENDA
WILL SEE EIGHT C8 WHERE THE
COUNSEL BRITISH I'D LIKE TO
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
WILL SEE EIGHT C8 WHERE THE
AGENDA ON FAVOR ALL OPPOSE THE
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
AGENDA ON FAVOR ALL OPPOSE THE
EXCEPTION OF C8 IS APPROVED
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
EXCEPTION OF C8 IS APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
PRESENT ALL VOTING THE
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
PRESENT ALL VOTING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
RESPECT TO THE SIX SEET EIGHT
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESOLUTION TO EXERCISE A RIGHT
RESPECT TO THE SIX SEET EIGHT
OF FIRST REFUSAL TO REFUSAL TO
RESOLUTION TO EXERCISE A RIGHT
PURCHASE AND RESELL THE
OF FIRST REFUSAL TO REFUSAL TO
AFFORDABLE UNIT AT ONE ZERO
PURCHASE AND RESELL THE
FIVE ASHLEY USE AND APPROPRIATE
AFFORDABLE UNIT AT ONE ZERO
FUNDS MOVE BY COUNCIL PRUDISH
FIVE ASHLEY USE AND APPROPRIATE
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
FUNDS MOVE BY COUNCIL PRUDISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF STATE
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
COUNCIL IN BRITISH YEA I WOULD
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF STATE
STAFF HAS GENEROUSLY AGREED TO
COUNCIL IN BRITISH YEA I WOULD
HELP US OUT ON THIS ITEM.
STAFF HAS GENEROUSLY AGREED TO
>> I WAS HOPING FOR SOME
HELP US OUT ON THIS ITEM.
CLARIFICATION OF THE AFFORDABLE
>> I WAS HOPING FOR SOME
COVENANT TERMS ON THIS PROPERTY
CLARIFICATION OF THE AFFORDABLE
,A LITTLE CLARIFICATION OF HOW
COVENANT TERMS ON THIS PROPERTY
IT IS THAT THE CITY COMES TO BE
,A LITTLE CLARIFICATION OF HOW
BUYING A UNIT BACK AND ANY
IT IS THAT THE CITY COMES TO BE
INSIGHT THAT IS POSSIBLE
BUYING A UNIT BACK AND ANY
REGARDING THE THE GENERAL
INSIGHT THAT IS POSSIBLE
TIMELINE THAT WE THAT THE CITY
REGARDING THE THE GENERAL
HAS TO UNDERTAKE TO INVESTIGATE
TIMELINE THAT WE THAT THE CITY
AND BRING UNITS WITH THESE
HAS TO UNDERTAKE TO INVESTIGATE
KINDS OF COVENANTS INTO
AND BRING UNITS WITH THESE
COMPLIANCE
WITH VARGUS IS
AVAILABLE ZOOME TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
SHE'LL BE JOINING US
COUNCIL
MEMBER JOSH CAN YOU SEE AND
HEAR ME?
>> YES WE CAN.
YES WE CAN.
THANK YOU ATTORNEY VARGUS THANK
YOU.
>> SORRY FOR THE DELAY BUT I
DID HEAR YOUR QUESTIONS AND I
WILL ADDRESS THEM AS BEST I CAN
SO I BELIEVE YOU AT FIRST ASKED
FOR A LITTLE BIT OF MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THESE CABINET
REQUIREMENTS.
SO THERE ARE EIGHT UNITS AND
ASHLEY NEWS THAT IS SET ASIDE
AS AFFORDABLE.
THEY ARE OWNER OCCUPIED UNITS
AND SO EACH ONE OF THEM HAS A
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT THAT IS
RECORDED.
AND SO THE MAIN TERMS OF THESE
COVENANTS ARE THAT THERE ARE
SOLD AT A RESTRICTED PRICE TO
ENSURE THAT THEY REMAIN
AFFORDABLE, THAT ANYONE WHO
PURCHASES THEM NEEDS TO BE
INCOME QUALIFIED SO ANY
ELIGIBLE PURCHASER WOULD NEED
TO MEET AN INCOME THRESHOLD
OF EIGHTY PERCENT AND I OR
LOWER IN ORDER TO BE ELIGIBLE
AND IT ALSO REQUIRES THAT THESE
UNIT OWNERS USE THESE HOMES AS
THEIR PRIMARY RESIDENCE.
SO PURSUANT TO THE COVENANT THE
CITY DOES HAVE THE ENFORCEMENT
RIGHTS FOR THESE COVENANTS.
SO WHEN THERE IS NONCOMPLIANCE
WE WILL RECEIVE A REFERRAL FROM
THE OFFICE OF COMMUNITY AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WHICH IS
THE ENTITY THAT SORT
OF OVERSEES THESE COVENANTS AND
THE COMPLIANCE ON BEHALF OF THE
CITY.
SO THAT OUR OFFICE CAN PERFORM
AN INVESTIGATION.
SO WE WERE REFERRED SEVERAL
OF THESE UNITS ASHLEY MIEUX
EARLIER THIS YEAR TO LOOK INTO
INVESTIGATE FOR POTENTIAL
NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE PRIMARY
RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
WE PERFORMED AN INVESTIGATION.
WE HAVE REACHED OUT OWNERS.
THIS UNIT AT 105 WAS ONE OF THE
UNITS THAT WE HAVE BEEN
INVESTIGATING AND WE DID
DETERMINE THAT THE OWNER WAS NO
LONGER USING THE UNIT AS THEIR
PRIMARY RESIDENCE.
SO WE HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH
THIS OWNER AND WE DO BELIEVE
THAT THE MOST EFFICIENT WAY TO
GET THIS UNIT BACK INTO THE
HANDS OF AN AFFORDABLE UNIT
OWNER IS FOR THE CITY TO GO
AHEAD AND MAKE THE PURCHASE AND
THEN RESELL IT TO AN INCOME
ELIGIBLE PURCHASER.
SO I THINK YOU ALSO ASKED ABOUT
SOME OF THE TIMELINE AND MAYBE
DIFFICULTY OF ENFORCING ON
THESE UNITS.
AND SO I WILL JUST SAY AGAIN
THERE ARE THREE TESTS THAT THE
CITY HAS BEEN LOOKING INTO.
THEY VARY IN TERMS OF THE
DIFFICULTY BUT IT HAS BEEN A
TIME INTENSIVE ENDEAVOR FOR OUR
OFFICE TO INVESTIGATE THESE
UNITS DETERMINE WHETHER THERE
IS CREDIBLE EVIDENCE
OF NONCOMPLIANCE, LOCATE THESE
OWNERS WHEREVER THEY MAY BE
THEY MAY BE IF NOT IN THE CITY
ANY MORE, NOT IN THE STATE
ANYMORE AND THEN NEGOTIATE WITH
THEM TO COOPERATE AND SELL THIS
BACK TO THE CITY SO THAT WE CAN
REGAIN COMPLIANCE IF THERE'S
ANYTHING I DID NOT ANSWER NO.
THAT WAS EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I JUST WANTED EVERYONE TO
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS COMES TO BE
ON THE CONSENT AGENDA AND THE
DIFFICULTIES THAT RESTRICTIVE
COVENANTS MAY POSE FROM AN
ENFORCEMENT PERSPECTIVE FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED WITH ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WE NOW COME TO A
SET OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
IN ALL INSTANCES WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
I WILL JUST REMIND FOLKS THAT
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER FIVE WITH
RESPECT TO THE RBA S BROWNFIELD
PROJECT HAS BEEN CANCELED HAS
BEEN PULLED BECAUSE THE RELATED
ITEM ON THE AGENDA HAS ALSO
BEEN PUT PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REZONING
OF ONE ACRE FROM TI WPE
TOWNSHIP TO R-1 A SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING T'AI ZONING ONE ONE
FIVE FIVE ARLINGTON BOULEVARD.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS JEFF HAYNER FROM
WARD ONE.
I'M GLAD TO SEE YOU'RE ALL HERE
OFTEN YOU'RE NOT YOU KNOW I
THINK WE KNOW THAT THIS BODY IS
PROBABLY THE WORST ATTENDANCE
RECORD I'VE BEEN ABLE TO DIG UP
HISTORICALLY.
CORRECT ME ON THAT.
BUT I THINK IT'S PROBABLY THE
MOST ABSENTEE HIM SINCE FOREVER
INCLUDING THE CHOLERA EPIDEMIC
OF EIGHTEEN SIXTY SIX.
>> OK, THAT BEING SAID, WHEN
YOU ALL VOTED TO APPROVE THIS
AGENDA WHICH INCLUDE PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE HERE YOU ALL
AGREED TO THE VIOLATION OF OPEN
MEETINGS ACT THIS FROM STRIKING
THE PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER FIVE
YOU HAVE TO GIVE EIGHTEEN HOURS
NOTICE NOW PUBLIC HEARING NO
ONE IS ON A REZONING AND WE ALL
KNOW THAT WHEN THERE'S A
REZONING HAPPENING IF YOU WERE
TO STRIKE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
WITH THE CASUAL ATTITUDE THAT
YOU DID PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
FIVE AND DOWN TWO, IT'D BE A
LOT OF TROUBLE AND I THINK THE
ATTORNEY WOULD AGREE WITH ME
THAT YOU CAN'T JUST GO STRIKING
PUBLIC HEARINGS THIS ITEM ONE
IN FRONT OF US HERE IT'S A
TYPICAL THING.
IT'S PRETTY ROTE.
YES.
THE OTHER ONE WASN'T IT'S VERY
ATYPICAL THAT WE WOULD DO THOSE
THINGS IN THIS CASE THERE'S NO
REASON TO STRIKE THIS AND YOU
WOULD BE IN TROUBLE WITH THE
OMAE IF YOU DID OK.
AND SO I'M GOING TO SUGGEST
THAT YOU HOLD THE HEARING
BECAUSE YOUR YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER
OF THIS PUBLIC HEARING NOT YET
.
>> NOT OTHER PUBLIC HEARINGS.
WELL THEN I'M DONE WITH THIS
ONE.
I HAVE ANOTHER ONE FOR THE NEXT
ONE THE ONES THAT YOU ARE
HOLDING TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
I'M JUST GIVING YOU NOTICE THAT
MY COMPLAINT IS BEING FILED.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING ALL I DON'T HAVE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS
HEARING.
OH, I DO.
>> THANK YOU, ALEX LOWE.
GO AHEAD
.
EVENING.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I
SUPPORT THIS BUT I HOPE THAT
THE RESIDENTS DON'T BUILD A
SECRET SECOND FLOOR AROUND
THEIR HOUSE WITHOUT GETTING THE
PROPER PERMITS.
>> THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON LINE FOR HEARING
SEE
NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC
YOUR NO TO AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
ZONING REZONING FIVE POINT
SEVEN ACRES FROM TDP TOWNSHIP
TO R FOR A MULTIFORM DWELLING
DISTRICT THE VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR THREE TO SIX ZERO ZERO
PONTIAC TRAIL.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> AND I'M KIND OF HERE ON
BEHALF OF A COUPLE OF DOZEN
EROWID FOLKS WHO ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT THIS PROJECT GENERALLY
NOW IT SAYS VILLAGE NUMBER
THREE BECAUSE THEY'VE HAD THE
DEVELOPERS HAD TO SPLIT THIS
INTO PHASES BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T
HAVE THE RIGHTS FOR ALL THIS
AND THIS FIVE POINT SEVEN ACRES
IS ESSENTIALLY A NATURAL STATE
RIGHT NOW AS ARE ALL THE OTHER
PROPERTIES.
THIS IS PART OF A SEVENTY FIVE
ACRE PARCEL THAT IS THE
AGGREGATIVE CASTLE THAT IS THE
LARGEST REMAINING UNDEVELOPED
PARCEL IN THE CITY.
AND YOU KNOW, LOOKING AT IT
LIKE COUNCILWOMAN DISH FROM
WARD ONE HERE WAS GOING OFF
ABOUT HOW AWESOME THE PUBLIC
PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP WAS GOING
TO BE TO BUILD SOME PARKING
STRUCTURES.
>> WELL, WE WE SPENT MILLIONS
ON A GEOTHERMAL PROJECT FOR THE
BRYANA NEIGHBORHOOD TO RETROFIT
THE BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THIS VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR IS
WHOLLY UNBUILT WHOLLY AND WE
SEEM TO LOVE GIVING AWAY OUR
LEVERAGE OVER DEVELOPMENT IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
THE EASIEST TIME TO DO
GEOTHERMAL AND COMBINED
GEOTHERMAL FIELDS AND MAKE ALL
THESE IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE'RE
SPENDING MILLIONS TO DO IN THE
BRIAND COMMUNITY IS BEFORE THE
FOUNDATIONS ARE BUILT AND
BEFORE THE LAND IS GRADED.
AND SO THIS VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR WITH ALL DUE RESPECT TO
THE DEVELOPERS FOR BRINGING
HOUSING TO OUR COMMUNITY IS NOT
THE NOT ALL HOUSING IS THE
SAME.
>> I KNOW THAT THE BOOTLICKERS
WOULD LIKE TO CALL IN WOULD SAY
HOUSING IS HOUSING BUT NOT ALL
THE HOUSING IS THE SAME.
WE COULD GET A MUCH BETTER
PROJECT OUT OF THIS AND I'M
SURE I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT
AWAITING THE OUTCOME OF THIS
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN SO
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT WE'RE
GOING TO JUST OUR FOR THIS
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THEY ASK
FOR SO IT TIES IN WITH THEIR
PLAN WHEN WE COULD HANG ON TO
THAT LITTLE LEVERAGE AND SAY WE
WANT SOMETHING BETTER THAN
THIS, WE WANT COMBINED
GEOTHERMAL FIELDS.
WE WANT GREEN DEVELOPMENT.
WE DON'T WANT ANY DEVELOPMENT.
NOT ALL HOUSING IS THE SAME AND
BY JUST GIVING THEM THIS YOU'RE
JUST SAYING OH HOUSING'S THE
SAME TO US TO YOU, NOT TO ME,
NOT TO THE PEOPLE IN ARROWOOD
BUT IT SEEMS TO BE TO YOU SO
CONSIDER THAT WHY ARE WE WHY
DON'T WE DO A PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP WITH THIS DEVELOPER
AND THROW IN A COUPLE MILLION
TO GET ALL THE GEOTHERMAL THAT
WE WANT TO BE A LOT LESS THAN
WHAT WE'RE PAYING FOR BRYANT
AND IT WOULD BE TEN TIMES THE
AMOUNT HOUSES BEING TOUCHED BY
THAT GOODNESS.
SO JUST MAKE THOSE
CONSIDERATIONS PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
HEY ADAM, JUST GIVE IT A YEAR
FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
WE'RE IN A HOUSING CRISIS AND
IT'S ESSENTIAL THAT WE BUILD
MORE HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
I SUPPORT THIS DEVELOPMENT AND
I'D LIKE TO SEE IT MOVE
FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
TO ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WE'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
HENRY, YOU HAVE A CALLER ON
LINE.
>> ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
SUPPORT THIS.
I DO WISH THAT THAT THE CITY
WERE DOING MORE TO SUPPORT THIS
AND I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO BACK
UP WHAT THE THE FIRST PERSON
SPEAKING SAID ABOUT HOUSING THE
CITY IS THE IT IS ABSOLUTELY
CORRECT.
>> SOME OF THE SOME OF IT IS
LEGALLY PERMITTED, LEGALLY
BUILT AND SOME OF IT CONTAINS
AN ILLEGAL SECOND LAW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS WITH THEIR HANDS UP
ONLINE
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER THREE IN
NORDEN'S TO AMEND SECTIONS FIVE
ONE SIX THREE F OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE FIVE DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY.
THEN ARBER IS THERE ANYONE IN
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
SO I SAW THE I SAW A STAFF
REPORT THAT SAID WE'RE DOWN TO
TWENTY ONE DISPENSARY RIGHT NOW
HERE IN THE CITY.
>> I THINK THAT WAS ACCURATE
AND WE THINK HAD TWENTY NINE AT
SOME POINT AND AS WE ALL OR
MAYBE YOU DON'T KNOW THE STATE
IS MAKING BIG CHANGES RIGHT NOW
TO THE MARIJUANA RULES AROUND
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA AND IF
THEY GO WITH THE RELATIONSHIP
OF A COMMUNITY'S POPULATION TO
THE NUMBER OF ALLOWED
BUSINESSES THERE, IT'S GOING TO
GIVE US ALMOST EXACTLY WHAT WE
HAVE TO START.
>> IT'S GOING TO GIVE US A 29
TO 30 DEPENDING ON HOW YOU
COUNT OUR POPULATION.
AND SO REMOVING THIS BUFFER I'M
NOT I'M NOT SURE WE'RE REALLY
HOT ON PROPPING UP THE
MARIJUANA BUSINESS IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I MEAN I DON'T WOULDN'T HAVE A
PROBLEM GETTING MARIJUANA IF I
WANTED TO.
I MEAN THERE'S A COUPLE PLACES
I CAN ALMOST POINT FROM THE
DECKS HERE SO REMOVING THE
SCHOOL BUFFER IS A LITTLE ODD.
>> I THINK THERE'S A REASON
IT'S THERE.
I KNOW I ALSO I'M SURE THAT
MANY PEOPLE WISH WE COULD
REMOVE THE BILLBOARDS ON THE
HIGHWAYS AND THE GIANT BANNER
THAT'S IN VIOLATION OF OUR
ORDINANCE UP AT CLOUD THAT SAYS
THAT MARIJUANA IS FOR EVERYONE
AND OF COURSE IT ISN'T.
>> SO I'M NOT A BIG, BIG, BIG
FAN OF I LIKE THE SCHOOL BUFFER
AND I LIKE KIND OF REASONABLE
LIMITS ON THE AMOUNT
OF BUSINESSES.
NOW THE STATE'S TALKING ABOUT
ONE MARIJUANA DISPENSARY FOR
EVERY FIVE THOUSAND RESIDENTS
AND CURRENTLY THEY ALLOW ONE
LIQUOR LICENSE FOR EVERY
FIFTEEN HUNDRED RESIDENTS.
SO THAT GIVES YOU A SENSE
OF HOW THEY CARE ABOUT THE
WELL-BEING OF OUR COMMUNITY.
>> IT'S THEY DON'T AND SO I
DON'T HAVE MUCH TO SAY.
IT SEEMS LIKE EVERY TIME OTHER
THAN THAT EVERY TIME THAT WE
COME UP THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF DISCUSSION AT THE TABLE.
>> THE RULES COUNCIL RULES
REALLY CONSIDER THAT
DELIBERATIONS ARE SUPPOSED TO
HAPPEN AT THIS TABLE IN FRONT
OF THE PUBLIC.
TYPICALLY WHAT WE GET IS THE
PEOPLE READING A STATEMENT OR
JUST SORT OF OH YES OR NO AND
NOT SAYING TOO MUCH ABOUT IT.
I I'D BE INTERESTED TO HEAR YOU
THINK TO HEAR WHAT YOU HAVE TO
SAY ABOUT HOW MANY MARIJUANA
BUSINESSES YOU DO WANT IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IF YOU THINK THAT
COMPETITION IS GOOD FOR THE
CONSUMER EITHER BY PRICE OR
PRODUCT AVAILABILITY OR WHAT
BECAUSE WE DON'T MONOPOLIES
DON'T DON'T DO SO WELL
MONOPOLIES TURN OUT TO DRIVE
PRICES UP.
RIGHT.
AND AND SO I'M JUST I'D LIKE TO
SEE YOU DISCUSS SOMETHING AT
THIS TABLE AND IF IT'S
MARIJUANA, WELL SO BE IT.
>> YOU KNOW, THAT'S ALL IT'S
INTERESTING.
I'M NOT GOING TO STICK AROUND
TOO LONG FOR THE SAME THING.
CHAPTER FORTY AT LEAST WE'RE
FINALLY DOING SOMETHING ABOUT
IT.
>> I THINK IT'S ABOUT TIME.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE IN THE HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT
?
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THEN I
SUPPORT THIS.
I WOULDN'T KNOW WHERE TO GET
MARIJUANA IN THE CITY.
>> NOT THAT I'M LOOKING FOR IT
,BUT I DO THINK THAT THAT
WHATEVER BUFFA REQUIREMENT WE
HAVE FOR, YOU KNOW, MARIJUANA,
FOR ALCOHOL ETC. FROM SCHOOLS
SHOULD ALSO BE APPLIED TO THE
VERY LARGE HEAVY MACHINERY THAT
IS HIGHLY WHICH WE SEEM TO HAVE
JUST SWARMING ALL OVER OUR
CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
VERY I DON'T HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS ON LINE
C YOU
KNOW IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO
FORWARD AUDIENCE TREMENDO
CHAPTER 40 TREES AND OTHER
VEGETATION OF TITLE THREE PARKS
AND PUBLIC GROUNDS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE, NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED A ONE WE HAVE BEFORE
US THE REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OF NOVEMBER SIX.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEMBER
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND A COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> DOES HE HAVE A DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES OR IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED?
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED VIELEN
CODE REZONING OF ONE ACRE FROM
TDP TOWNSHIP TO R1 ONE A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING TY ZONING ONE
ONE FIVE FIVE ARLINGTON
BOULEVARD MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECOND I COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK DISCUSSION PLEASE
TO BE ONE COUNCIL BRITISH.
THIS IS A STRAIGHTFORWARD
REZONING OF A ONE ACRE PARCEL
WHOSE ANNEXATION WAS APPROVED
BY THE STATE ON JUNE 3RD.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THE
PROPERTIES WITHIN CITY
BOUNDARIES MUNICIPAL WATER AND
SANITARY SEWER ARE AVAILABLE.
>> I WILL BE SAYING YES FURTHER
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED.
>> IT'S PROVED TO BE TO AN
AUDIENCE TO MEN CHAPTER 55
REZONING FIVE POINT SEVEN ACRES
FROM TODAY TO AH FOR A
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO THE VILLAGE OF TITLE PART
OF ME THE VILLAGE ANN ARBOR
THREE TWO SIX ZERO ZERO PONTIAC
TRAIL MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> HAPPY TO COUNT THE BRITISH
AS WE HAVE RECEIVED A PETITION
ON THIS ITEM AND WE'VE HEARD
SOME PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
IMAGINES THAT SOMETHING NEW IS
HAPPENING HERE TONIGHT.
>> I WOULD ASK STAFF TO CLARIFY
WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH THIS
ITEM ON OUR AGENDA.
MR AS UNTIL
GOOD EVENING MARY
COUNCIL CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
YES WE CAN THANK YOU.
SO TWENTY SIX HUNDRED PONTIAC
TRAILERS FOR REZONING
SHOCKINGLY ON PONTIAC TRAIL.
THIS WAS ACTUALLY PREVIOUSLY
ANNEXED AS PART OF A
DEVELOPMENT PETITION FOR A
PROJECT CALLED THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR.
TYPICALLY WHEN THESE COME TO
YOUR DIOCESE FOR CONSIDERATION
THEY COME IN A PHASED APPROACH
FIRST YOU CONSIDER THE
ANNEXATION THAT IS SENT TO THE
STATE ONCE THE STATE APPROVES
THE ANNEXATION, THEN WE COME
BACK FOR THE ZONING IN THIS
CASE YOU REZONE THE SITE
PREVIOUSLY TO OUR FAR AWAY BUT
DUE TO MY ERROR WE OMITTED A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION AS PART
OF THAT ORIGINAL ORDINANCE.
SO THIS CLEANS UP THAT REZONING
DESIGNATING THIS PARCEL TO
MATCH THE SURROUNDING PARCELS
OF OUR FOYER.
THERE'S NO PROPOSED CHANGE TO
DEVELOPMENT ON THIS SITE AT
THIS TIME.
THERE WAS AN EMAIL THAT WAS
SENT THAT PRESCRIBED THAT THIS
WAS PREVIOUSLY A CITY PARK
OF SOME SORT.
THIS HAS ALWAYS BEEN UNDER
PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
IT IS WILL CONTINUE HOWEVER, AS
PART OF THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT THAT WAS PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED.
IT IS PRIMARILY REMAINING AS
OPEN SPACE AND I'M HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
SO THE INTERIOR VILLAGES OR
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR WERE STILL
WAITING FOR BECAUSE THERE'S
COMPLICATIONS WITH EAGLE, IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> YEAH, THERE THEY HAVE AGAIN
WE HAVE APPROVED A PLAN THERE.
I THINK GOING THROUGH SOME
SCENARIO PLANNING TO FIGURE OUT
THE BEST WAY TO ADDRESS ANY
NEEDED REMEDIATION ON THAT
SITE.
I DO THINK THEY ARE CONSIDERING
SOME MINOR MODIFICATIONS TO THE
SITE BUT THEY HAVE NOT OF BUT
THE REVIEW OF THOSE HAVE NOT
BEEN COMPLETED AT THIS TIME.
>> SO THIS IS I'M SORRY AND
AGAIN I DON'T ANTICIPATE
SIGNIFICANT CHANGES TO THIS
PARTICULAR PARCEL AS PART
OF THAT AND THIS PROJECT IS
BRINGING US ABOUT 600 UNITS
OF HOUSING AND BACK WHEN THAT
PROJECT WAS WORKING ITS WAY
THROUGH STAFF, THE DEVELOPER
OFFERED TO ELECTRIFY A
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THAT
PROJECT.
>> IT GEOTHERMAL WAS DISCUSSED
.
BUT BECAUSE THIS PROJECT IS IN
FACT REPURPOSING AND SITTING
ADJACENT TO AN OLD MUNICIPAL
DUMP, IT'S NOT THE BEST SITE
FOR THAT KIND OF HEATING AND
COOLING.
>> YEAH, MINIMIZING DISTURBANCE
OF SOME OF THAT SOIL TO SOME
EXTENT I'M NOT AN ENVIRONMENTAL
ENGINEER SO I DON'T WANT TO GET
TOO FAR.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT
DEFINITELY WAS A CONSIDERATION
ADDITION JUST TO JUST AS A
REMINDER THERE ARE A COUPLE
OTHER ATTRIBUTES OF THAT
PROJECT THAT INCLUDED A NEW
CONNECTION TO LESLIE PARK FROM
THE WEST AS WELL AS SOME
ASSISTANCE TO IMPROVE THE
POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS AT THE
SIGNIFICANT INTERSECTIONS
AROUND THAT SITE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, SO COUNCILOR, I'M GOING TO
VOTE YES FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT APPROVED B3
NORDEN'S TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
ONE SIX THREE F OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED AND CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE AND CITY
BANABA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION IS A
B3 THREE COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
THANKS.
SINCE SOME FOLKS MAY HAVE
MISSED THE DISCUSSION THAT
HAPPENED AT FIRST READING I
JUST WANTED TO UPDATE ON THAT.
I AM SUPPORTIVE OF MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS BUT THE MEMO
THAT'S POST ON LET'S START
DOESN'T NECESSARILY REFLECT
WHAT ARE THE CHANGES THAT WE
MADE AT FIRST READING SO A
LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE NUMBER
OF MARIJUANA RETAIL LOCATIONS.
THIS IS ABOUT THE BUFFER
BETWEEN MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
AND K THROUGH 12 SCHOOLS.
WE'VE HAD A COUPLE OF RETAIL
LOCATIONS THAT WERE BECAUSE
OF REGULATORY CHANGES AT THE
STATE LEVEL.
WE'RE GOING TO NO LONGER GET
THEIR LICENSES AND SO WE WERE
FORCED TO KIND OF REVISIT OUR
BUFFER AND DETERMINE IF THAT
STILL MADE SENSE PLANNING AND
ESSENTIALLY CAME BACK TO US
WITH THE RECOMMENDATION THAT IT
WAS THEY THOUGHT THAT THROUGH A
DIFFERENT PROCESS THAT THEY
COULD REMOVE THAT AND IT WOULD
BE REVIEWED AND CONSIDERED
THROUGH THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE PROCESS.
WHAT WE DID AT FIRST READING
WAS TO ENSURE THAT NO RETAIL,
NO BUSINESS WOULD POP UP SORT
OF ADJACENT TO THE SCHOOL.
SO WE PUT IN A MINIMUM 100 FOOT
BUFFER SO THAT IT DIDN'T
BUSINESS DIDN'T YOU KNOW,
DIDN'T WASN'T CONSIDERED DIDN'T
CONSIDER OUR LOCATION
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT OR ACROSS
FROM A SCHOOL.
SO THAT SORT OF SITUATION IS
WON'T BE ENTERTAINED IN THE
FUTURE BUT CERTAINLY WE'LL BE
CONSIDERING THROUGH THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION THIS PROCESS WHETHER
FURTHER DISTANCES WILL BE WOULD
BE WARRANTED FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO RESPOND
BRIEFLY TO SOMETHING WE HEARD
DURING PUBLIC THE PUBLIC
HEARING ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
THAT WE MAY NOT BE AWARE
OF CHANGES THAT MIGHT BE COMING
AT THE STATE LEVEL.
WE'VE ACTUALLY TALKED
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT THIS ALREADY
AT OUR POLICY COMMITTEE MEETING
WHICH IS THE THE COMMITTEE
MEETING THAT MEETS REGULARLY TO
TALK ABOUT THINGS THAT ARE
HAPPENING AT THE LEGISLATIVE
LEVEL IN THE STATE LEGISLATIVE
LEVEL AND REALLY RELATES TO THE
CITY'S POSITION IN THAT IN THAT
REGARD WE'RE VERY AWARE
OF POTENTIAL CHANGES THAT MAY
LIMIT SOME OF THE USES ARE THE
THE NUMBER OF BUSINESSES THAT
COULD EXIST HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND WE'RE ALSO VERY AWARE
OF THE POTENTIAL FINANCIAL
IMPACT THAT THAT MAY HAVE ON
US.
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE BEEN SPENDING
OUR MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REVENUE FOR REALLY IMPORTANT
PRIORITIES HERE IN THE CITY
INCLUDING EVICTION PREVENTION
THROUGH RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
PROGRAM.
SO WE ARE ABSOLUTELY VERY AWARE
OF THE CHANGES THAT ARE
HAPPENING AND WE'LL CONTINUE TO
ADVOCATE FOR THE CITY TO GET
THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF STATE
REVENUE SHARING SO THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO INVEST IN THESE
IMPORTANT COMMUNITY PRIORITIES
FOR THE DISCUSSION IN FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED BEFORE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER 40
TREES AND OTHER VEGETATION
OF TITLE THREE PARKS AND
GROUNDS PARKS AND PUBLIC
GROUNDS WITH THE CODE OF THE
CITY THAN MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACTON'S BY COUNCILMAN
CORNELL DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE
BEFORE COUNCIL BRACKMAN.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO THIS SECOND READING I THINK
IT WAS TO HAVE A SECOND READING
THE LAST MEETING THAT WAS
POSTPONED BECAUSE
TRANSPORTATION STAFF ASKED US
TO USE CARE IN ENACTING THIS
THAT WE MAKE SURE THAT
SIGHTLINES ARE THAT WE'RE CLEAR
ABOUT THE RESTRICTIONS AROUND
SIGHTLINES LINES ON CORNERS AND
SO CHANGES HAVE BEEN MADE TO
THIS AND I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
TO AMEND WITH THOSE CHANGES
THAT I THINK MISS BEAUDRY CAN
DISTRIBUTE ELECTRONICALLY BUT
THEY'RE ALSO AT YOUR IN A PAPER
COPY.
SO AS YOU LOOK AT THE ORDINANCE
,THE BLUE CHANGES WERE THE
ORIGINAL CHANGES TO THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE AND THE READ CHANGES
ARE THE CHANGES THAT ARE BEING
SUGGESTED IN THE AMENDMENT.
DO I NEED A SECOND A SECOND BY
COUNCILOR CORNELL?
>> CAN YOU PERHAPS FOR THE
PUBLIC DESCRIBE THE PURPOSE FOR
THE PURPOSE OF THE OF THIS
ORDINANCE?
THIS IS CHAPTER FORTY.
IT RELATES TO TREES AND OTHER
VEGETATION.
WE FOCUSED OUR CHANGES ONLY AND
I WANT EMPHASIZE THIS BECAUSE
I'VE GOTTEN SOME QUESTIONS FROM
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
WE'RE FOCUSING THE CHANGES
RIGHT NOW JUST ON PEOPLE'S
PRIVATE PROPERTY.
SO UP TO THE SIDEWALK THIS DOES
HAVE ANY IMPACT AND CHANGES IN
THE LAWN EXTENSION OR EASEMENT
AS YOU MIGHT CALL IT THOUGH
CHANGES ARE PROBABLY NEEDED
THERE IN THE FUTURE BUT WE ARE
NOT DEALING WITH THOSE NOW.
SO ALL OF THESE DEAL WITH THAT.
SO THE CHANGES IN THE AMENDED
EVENT BASICALLY SPECIFY THAT
THAT THE CITY THAT CITY STAFF
ARE ABLE TO USE THE ASHUTOSH
STANDARD AND I DON'T KNOW IF
THE TIMELINE WHAT THAT STANDS
FOR BUT IT IS THE
TRANSPORTATION ORIENTED GROUP
THAT IT ALLOWS THEM TO SET A
SITE TRINGLE THAT IS DIFFERENT
PERHAPS GREATER THAN THE FORTY
BY FORTY THAT'S DESCRIBED IN
THE ORIGINAL CHANGES AND THAT
IS BECAUSE THAT SITE TRIANGLE
AND SAFETY AROUND IT AND
BASICALLY THIS IS ABOUT HAVING
CLEAR LINES
OF SIGHT DEPENDS ON
THE SPEED OF THE PREVAILING
SPEED OF THE ROAD AND SO ON
HIGHER SPEED ROADS YOU NEED A
BIGGER SITE TRIANGLE THAN YOU
DO ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
THE OTHER CHANGE THAT IS IN
THIS AMENDMENT IS THAT INSTEAD
OF USING A QUALITATIVE
DESCRIPTION ABOUT BEING ABLE TO
SEE THROUGH THAT SITE TRIANGLE
PEOPLE ON BIKES, PEOPLE WALKING
NOW IT SETS A HEIGHT LIMIT
OF THIRTY INCHES.
>> THOSE ARE THE KEY CHANGES
PLEASE CORRECT ME IF I GOT ANY
OF THAT WRONG.
OK, ARE THOSE CHANGES FRIENDLY?
IS THAT AMENDMENT FRIENDLY?
THE BODY SO I BELIEVE I BELIEVE
WHAT THIS DOES IS IT KICKS IT
BACK TO FIRST READING AND THIS
IS NOT THE FIRST READING.
RIGHT.
MAYBE YOU COULD WALK US
THROUGH.
THAT'S RIGHT.
JOHN RIISER, ASSISTANT CITY
ATTORNEY.
IT WOULD RENDER THIS FIRST
READING I WOULD BE SCHEDULED
FOR A SECOND READING AT A
FUTURE MEETING LIKE THE NEXT
ONE AS WELL AS ANOTHER PUBLIC
HEARING FOR A DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED OR IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
WAYNE POWELL TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE AS A NON
REGISTERED ELECTOR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ALL
FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT A SATISFYING THE SEVEN
VOTE REQUIREMENT TO HAVE THE
PLEDGE OF CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE CLERKS
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS AND IF
MOST PLEASED TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
GARCIA HAD BEEN SAVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OPPOSED IS APPROVED BY
THEIR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU MAYOR MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
>> PLEASE MOVE RATHER IN THE
ABSENCE OF PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
O'CONNELL.
SECOND MY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION ON FABER POST.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED